So let's go ahead and write another
query now to query for the relationship.
So, what I'm gonna do here now after I've
done this, we're gonna start looking
at Aubrey Plaza because I think she's
very funny, and we're going to match,
(p:Person)-[:ACTED_IN]
-> (m:Movie);
And actually, let's just grab that r,
and we're going to return r.
So in this particular case,
we're getting all of the people that act
in various different roles inside
of Scott Pilgrim Versus the World.
So I can actually query directly for
these edges or relationships.
Okay, let's put a where clause in here,
WHERE p.name= 'Aubrey
Plaza And then you wanna return p, right?
Because we're gonna find the person that
acted in Scott Pilgrim Versus the World,
so that'll be Aubrey Plaza, right?
Or we can look at the r, we can see that
Aubrey Plaza in Scott Pilgrim Versus
the World played Julie Powers, right?
Or again,
you can return m which will be the movie,
which will be Scott Pilgrim
versus the World.
So this actually will give you every
movie that Aubrey Plaza played.
And in this case, we just have
one movie in our database, but
this would give you all of them.
Okay, now what happens if I wanted
to find everyone that acted in
a film with Aubrey Plaza.
Well, you can actually do that as well.
So I'm gonna say MATCH (p:Person) ->,
[:ACTED_IN]; -> (movie), right?
We don't even have to get that variable
because we're not gonna refer to it.
We're just looking for any movie that
someone acted in with Aubrey Plaza and
then I can just do an arrow
in the other direction here.
<-[ :ACTED_IN], and then I'll have another
person so we'll just call this person,
I don't know, -(q:) is what I have
my notes, I don't know why I did q.
So another person like that,
WHERE p.name = 'Aubrey Plaza' AND,
we don't want it to return Aubrey Plaza.
Because technically, Aubrey plaza
has been in the movies with herself,
according to our graph database.
So when we say where q.name, and
this is how you do,
null equal is the angle
bracket is just together like that,
<> 'Aubrey Plaza' RETURN q.name.
So again, I really liked,
I messed that up,
there's shouldn't be an arrow there,
right there I meant.
So this is actually not gonna work because
there shouldn't be an angle bracket there.
There we go, so this is where it is.
So p:Person, then you have just
a minus sign, acted in movie, and
you have this other person that
also acted in the movie, and
then you just return the name down here.
And so you can see these are all
the people that played roles in films with
Aubrey Plaza.
Now imagine that you had 100 films and
1,000 actresses,
you would get 1,000 actresses back here.
Pretty cool, right?
I like Cipher as a query
language cuz it reads very well,
despite the fact that graphs
are kind of complicated, right?
There's a lot of interesting
things you can do with graphs, but
as long as you're just kind of like
drawing your relationships between these
various different nodes,
it's pretty easy to query for them.
Like, what if I wanted to find
all the roles that these people
played with Aubrey Plaza?
It's totally possible, so
I'm gonna do the same thing here,
except I'm gonna describe r here and
ACTED_IN.
I'm gonna say where p = q.name,
and then what I wanna
do is I wanna return <> q.name,
I wanna return r.roles.
And you can see here these are all
the roles people played in films with
Aubrey Plaza, it's wild to me that that's
so easy to query for something like that.
All I did is stick a variable
here with our r : ACTED_IN, and
then all I did was return
the property of r.roles.
So what if I wanna query for
everyone that was younger than Aubrey
Plaza that played in a film with her?
Again, terribly easy to do,
same query up here.
Okay, and
then here instead of saying where
q.name is not equal to Aubrey Plaza,
all I have to do here is
say where q.born is greater
than p.born and then just return q.name.
And so these are both Brie Larson,
and Anna Kendrick played in a film
with Aubrey Plaza, and
they are both younger than Aubrey Plaza.
Just to kind of show you something so
that you know will how to do this.
Let's say that we wanted to create
a constraint where movie names
must be unique.
Now we all know that there's like 17
Godzilla films because they keep calling
the films Godzilla, but
for a moment, fathom for
a second that a movie name must be unique.
What you can do here is you can say,
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (a:
Movie) ASSERT a.title IS unique;.
And this is going to
create an index actually,
where it's gonna force
movie titles to be unique.
And now if I tried to go create another
film called Scott Pilgrim Versus the World
is gonna say, you can't do this,
I've been told that this is unique,
so I'm going to hold this
constraint to be true.
So that's how you do unique and
naming with graph databases.
So graph databases
actually do have indexes,
we'll get to that here in just a second.